# Psychophysical-Experiment
A working MATLAB model of a computational neuroscience experiment in visual psychophysics to study vision.

Psychophysics deals with the quantitative and qualitative relationships between physical and cognitive features. The origin of modern day psychophysical experiments in neuroscience can be traced back to Gustav Fechner and his observations in visual psychophysics. Normally one finds that ophthalmologists use levels of intensity for a given stimulus to analyze whether a person sees it or not. The method, although efficient, can approach hysteresis i.e., the person can still observe that a stimulus is present even if he/she cannot accurately detect or identify it. This problem will be tried to overcome in the experiment model designed for this project.

To overcome the hysteresis problem in visual psychophysics, a method of constant stimuli is adopted. In this approach, stimuli are presented to the subject at random order from a predetermined set of values. This provides reliable and unbiased threshold measurements. Any error will be reduced by using a large range of stimuli with a large number of repetitions. A method of adjustment will also be used to tests different stimuli matched to a given control i.e., using different colors for our experiment here.
A classic experiment in visual psychophysics was conducted by Hecht, Shlaer and Pirenne in 1942, which will be adopted in this experiment model. The method of constant stimuli will be adopted to determine the absolute threshold of vision. The participant will observe a dark screen and determine whether he sees the stimulus or not. The brightness level of the stimulus helps determine the threshold at which the participant can distinguish between being able to see the stimulus or not. The dark screen allows to differentiate between levels of brightness in order to make sense of the “absolute threshold” of brightness at which the stimulus can be seen

The computational model of the experiment in MATLAB involves showing dark screens to the subject with stimuli of different brightness levels present at a certain location. The subject states whether he/she can see the stimulus by pressing “.” for stimulus present and “,” for stimulus absent. The answers are recorded and a threshold is found which corresponds to the subject’s visual absolute threshold for seeing the object. Numerous trials with different brightness levels are used to ensure reliability and reduce any error. The subject’s visual perception of different RGB colors and his/her periphery perception is also tested using different colored stimuli and by changing the location of the stimulus horizontally. The subject is told to maintain a fixed distance to the screen and performing the experiment in a preferably dark room to avoid any external light affect the experimental results
